All right, so, as usual, there is a,
hopefully, let's find out,
[LAUGH] a finished version here
that no longer is throwing errors,
we'll look at it in a second, and
this is essentially what we want.
So we've now got a button that I can
click that opens a modal dialog which in
this stylesheet that is already
included like kind of already makes
everything blurry for us and
the browser also knows that it's modal so
other things are basically don't exist for
all intents and purposes for
us right now, and
it has the content that we already had.
That, for example,
the elements with the IDs that we had
already set up our toggle to work with.
And we have this beautiful H2 and
this beautiful close button that
we can use to close the modal.
So let's look at the code because
that's what we care about.
Okay, so yes, this the form looks
pretty similar to what we just had.
Let's skip ahead to the modal.
Okay, so similarly we just set up
some default values for these so
that we can get going.
We're doing a very similar
we're like exposing some of
these values like the name of the modal
that might be something that the developer
might wanna check later or change or what
have you, so we'll expose it for them.
We're setting some attributes on
the buttons like we did before,
we're setting the content,
no big difference from how we did this
with the close button in the form.
We're also setting references to
the parent and to the content.
Again, maybe the user is gonna wanna
change this out later in response to
something else that
happens in the program.
And then what we're doing,
other than this was already in here that
I just sort of declared as
the dictator of dark modal HTML file,
that we're gonna call this setup form.
But another thing that we
could have private setup form.
Another thing that we could have is
like some other internally use private
methods that help us work with
the setup whatever listeners and
things like that that we are gonna need.
It might be some other things that we
need to do that we don't want the user to
care about.
We don't want the user to be able to like,
mess with the inter
Internals of this object.
Again, we're in object-oriented land
where we want to encapsulate as much as
possible and only expose the very
necessary things to users.
And so for example,
we could declare a private method
of register the open listener where
we're gonna get this Open button,
once we've got our dialogue set up,
once it has some stuff in it,
and it's ready to go,
it's ready to be shown,
once we've set up the form that's
gonna be inside of the dialogue,
now we're ready to attach
a listener to this Open button.
We can grab a reference to dialog because,
we'll get into that second.
So what I'm doing is I'm grabbing the Open
button, adding an event listener.
We've done it a million times and
what we wanna do in that event listener
is to show the modal of this dialogue,
sorry, of the dialogue that we
care about in this instance.
[LAUGH] But why would we go to the trouble
of reassigning a const dialogue
here instead of using just directly
referring to this.dialogue.showModal?
Any ideas?
>> Would that return more than one
if you had more than one other page?
No.
>> I don't think it would
return more than one.
Is it to do with scopes and
what this mean means?
>> It's to avoid my least
favorite word in JavaScript.
And there are some differences between,
for
example, what this does
inside of an arrow function,
versus what this does inside of
a function keyword function.
And there's various other things to
remember about what this is going
to evaluate to in a different
scope than the one that we're
in when we're in our class
declaration method land.
And so me personally, in any other scopes,
the function body scope here,
that is different because remember
this is gonna be a listener
handler that's gonna be just set over
there until the click event fires.
It gets detected by the browser,
the browser pushes this call back to
the queue, the event loop picks it up and
puts it in a stack when it ready, and
it's gonna call this dot dialogue.
And if I haven't been totally clear with
myself and memorized all of the rules of
what this evaluates to in different
types of contexts and blah, blah, blah,
I might not be doing
what I think I'm doing.
I might be getting undefined.showmodal.
[LAUGH] It's not that sort of thing.
So, this is why we wanna be careful
when we're doing things like
declaring new functions within
other scopes with the this keyword,
and this is one of the reasons
why I personally hate it.
[LAUGH] But we're soldiering on.
And so then what we want, and okay
remember this register open listener this
isn't an entire internal thing,
it's private it has that hash.
And it will only be allowed
by JavaScript to be called
within these two curly braces
of the model definition.
So interestingly even if I
extend model to a fancy modal,
and I tried to access the parent classes,
private method, register, open listener,
now you can only do it within those
two curly braces right there.
So fun with classes in JavaScript.
Okay.
So So
the render method here is pretty simple.
It's basically taking whatever
the parent element is, earlier,
Was basically given the content element
that we want to have in this modal.
But what this is doing, and again, there's
multiple different ways to do this,
is it's creating that open button and
it's putting both of them in the parent.
An open button, so that you can
open the modal and the non-open.
So therefore, not yet
visible dialogue form, dialogue and
form Form that will then be opened
when the button gets clicked.
And so what we're doing is we're
essentially blowing away the previous
contents [LAUGH] of the parent and
then we are appending first, so
we're replacing the children with
the open button, so that comes first, and
then we're appending
a child of the dialogue.
Now, there's a bunch of different
ways you could do this.
You don't have to be replacing children.
You could be appending.
You could be doing all
kinds of different stuff.
And again, this is a note to say,
make sure that if you're exposing
a public method like this,
that it is something that your
users can be calling, right?
So in this case, I as the user
have to decide when it is time to
render my modal content into the parent.
We could also have automatically rendered
the element at construction time, but
maybe in this case, we want to give our
users a little more control Or control.
And another reason that I include
this little render method is
that we're starting to get in
the direction of a lot of the stuff
that the bajillion frameworks
out there that we know and love,
kind of setup for us where we have
tooling that hooks in to other
layers of tooling that hooks into
other layers of tooling where
we have frameworks that can do
things like manipulate the DOM for
us based on content or
declarative definitions in some cases,
like React that we are making about
what we want the DOM to look like.
We might have a framework that is creating
these objects and render methods and
calling them for us.So this is why I
forced us to have a render [LAUGH]
method here is just to start us
thinking about the difference
between proposed preparing all
of the content, ready to go, and
actually modifying the document
that is being shown on the page.